# Senti Playground

## Introduction
Welcome to [Senti Playground](https://dev.d326y2f9qgagyn.amplifyapp.com/), a React web-application to explore sentiment analysis. Sentiment analysis is a subset of Natural Language Processing, and increasingly businesses are looking to leverage the ever-increasing power of machine learning to derive insights from customer data and fuel growth. With Senti Playground, you can test our in-house [Senti API](https://senti-ment-api.herokuapp.com/), a Python sentiment analysis API using NLTK, compare results from other leading text analysis services, classify the latest headlines, and contribute to the open-source community by helping the Senti team build our ML model training corpora. Sign up by creating an account and dive in!

## Features
* [Playground](https://dev.d326y2f9qgagyn.amplifyapp.com/senti) - Getting started with machine learning is a daunting prospect, and it may take days for beginners to start acheiving results. The playground eliminates the need for you to hassle with your own code and immediately experience sentiment analysis by exposing a easy-to-use demo of our very own API. Simply type in your sentence or phrase of choice, and within seconds, you'll recieve the results generated by one of the two currently supported Senti sentiment analysis algorithms, Naive Bayes, or the VADER (Valence Aware Dictionary and sEntiment Reasoner) approach, right in your browser. A cURL command for use in a command line interface is automatically generated for your convenience, no key is required for use. 
* [Sentiment Engine](https://dev.d326y2f9qgagyn.amplifyapp.com/newsreel) - Integrating with external APIs is not always a trivial task for new devs, and to do so with multiple APIs, creates avoidable challenges for the indivdual who simply wants to try out sentiment analysis and has a limited development background. We've created a simple "search engine" that uses multiple industry-leading providers, like MS Azure and Amazon Web Services to analyses your text, removing the need for you to write your own code or obtain API keys, and allowing you to focus on the results and comparing the accuracy levels of different APIs.
* [Newsreel](https://dev.d326y2f9qgagyn.amplifyapp.com/newsreel) - Sentiment analysis and NLP are often misunderstood and concpetually shrouded in secrecy. What better way to understand the concept by applying sentiment analysis to real-world data. Senti Playground automatically serves you the latest top headlines from your country, and using the Senti API bulk analysis feature, each headline is classified and the results presented to you in a mini-dashboard. Senti uses real live news, so feel free to click on a link and read the articles if something piques your interest!
* [The Corpus Project](https://dev.d326y2f9qgagyn.amplifyapp.com/corpus) - Any Machine Learning model is only as good as the training data. The best sentiment classifiers are trained using millions of words from a wide vareity of sources and contexts. For sentiment analysis models to be accurate, they need to learn using modern terminology, and Senti invites you to contribute to our growing Gen Z lexicon by submitting a word or phrase that you frequently use or is commonly thought of as slang, as well as the generally accepted sentiment. By open-sourcing our dataset creating, Senti aims to supercharge our model improvement and allow Senti API to reach new heights. Submit on the dedicated page using the simple interface; keep track of our goal using the progress bar. Each submission will fill the bar and help us improve!

## Consumed APIs 
* [Senti API](https://github.com/kialanpillay/senti-api) - [Documentation](https://senti-ment-api.herokuapp.com/)
* [ipapi](https://ipapi.co)
* [Open Weather Map](https://openweathermap.org)
* [NewsAPI](https://newsapi.org)
* [Amazon Web Services Comprehend](https://aws.amazon.com/comprehend/)
* [Microsoft Text Analysis](https://rapidapi.com/microsoft-azure-org-microsoft-cognitive-services/api/microsoft-text-analytics1)
* [MeaningCloud Sentiment Analysis](https://www.meaningcloud.com/developer/sentiment-analysis)
* [ParallelDots Sentiment Analysis](https://www.paralleldots.com/sentiment-analysis) - See Notes Below

## UCT DevSoc Competition Notes
The Senti Playground is built using React and AWS Amplify, an open-source framework for building rich, scalable web applications. The site is also hosted using AWS. Senti Playground integrates with a number of different APIs to deliver the user experience. Senti Playground has partnered with [Remote](https://remote-mu.vercel.app/) (yes, I know I also built it xD)  to bring you Remote-branded information on your current local weather and COVID-19 statistics on the homepage using several APIs. Senti Playground requires an account to be used. Simply create one when prompted to, or if returning, just login with your username and password. If for some reason, you do not wish to create an account, you may use the following details to login
* Username: DevSoc
* Password uct12345

Senti Playground uses the sentiment analysis functionality from our own built-from-scratch Senti API (see other repo for full source code), which is a Python Flask application that hosted is hosted on a Heroku dyno. Although we advertise blazingly fast analysis, do take into account that the Heroku dyno only spins up on request with the free-plan, and thus you might have to wait a bit longer on your first request. Subsequent calls will be fast, so don't stress! 

We also integrate with three other APIs, the AWS Comprehend service via AWS Amplify Predictions, Microsoft Text Analysis via RapidAPI, and MeaningCloud Text Analysis API. You can learn more about this services by visiting the links displayed on the Playground. Note that there is code for a fourth integration with a ParallelDots API, however this API call was removed as ParallelDots exposes an unsecured endpoint so requests will fail in a production environment. Code is maintained in the event of a SSL upgrade of their API. 

NewsAPI is Senti Playground's source of the latest headlines from your particular country. Unfortunately, their developer plan only offers localhost requests, and is not CORS-enabled :(. As a workaround to this, sample news data from NewsAPI has been cached and is used to demonstrate the Senti API bulk analysis service. These are real headlines, but are just a bit stale, as a real request in production would fail due to this limitation. The source code for the API call is maintained for a possible future upgrade in NewsAPI plan. 

A further limitation is API keys and secret management. For Senti API, our secrets are securely managed using Heroku's built-in support for environment variables. However, AWS Amplify, the chosen hosting service, does not presently allows for environment variables, which means that the API keys are sadly hard-coded into the source code. Please be respectful an do not use the API keys for your own use; most of these keys are for free-plans and are strictly rate-limited, which would impact the performance of this application if they were used elsewhere. 

It is not possible to run Senti Playground locally due to the AWS development configuration that requires my personal credentials. However, all the functionality is available via the hosted site which is an exact representation of the source code. In the spirit of clean code, comments are present only when deemed essential. Code is well-strucutrued and PEP compliant, so it should be a breeze to look through. 
Enjoy this website and thanks for reading!
